# Apple
- Ron Avitzur -- After Apple cancelled his project, Graphing Calculator, he, together with his friend Greg Robbins, continued to work for free, sneaking into the building every day in order to continue development of the software. When completed, the software was so impressive that Apple executives used it as their standard demonstration of the then-new PowerPC chips, and agreed to ship the calculator with Mac OS 9

- Tantek Çelik -- part of XHTML, CSS
- Dave Hyatt -- Safari, WebKit, co-create Firefox, tabbed-browsing, CSS
- Jordan Hubbard -- co-found FreeBSD
- Ramanathan V. Guha -- RDF standard, RSS
- Doug Cutting -- creator of open-source search technology (Lucene, Nutch), ceator of Hadoop
- Alan Kay -- I had the fortune or misfortune to learn how to read fluently starting at the age of three. So I had read maybe 150 books by the time I hit 1st grade. And I already knew that the teachers were lying to me. one of the fathers of the idea of object-oriented programming. Xerox PARC, graphical interface. conceptual basics for laptop and tablet computers and E-books. a former professional jazz guitarist, composer, and theatrical designer, and an amateur classical pipe organist.
- Chris Lattner -- LLVM, clang compiler, Xcode, Apple compiler, wife: president of LLVM foundation, Swift
- Maciej Stachowiak -- Safari, WebKit, A longtime proponent of Open Source, Stachowiak was involved with the SCWM, GNOME and Nautilus projects for Linux. actively involved the development of web standards, and is a co-chair of the World Wide Web Consortium's HTML 5 working group and a member of the Web Hypertext Application Technology Working Group steering committee. maintainer for the Scheme interpreter for Guile. a member of GNOME Foundation board of directors
- Gary Starkweather -- invention of the laser printer and color management
- Larry Tesler -- the Gypsy word processor and Smalltalk, Copy and paste, Object Pascal

# Google
- Hal Abelson ---   computer science, ethics, law, methodology, amorphous computing. Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science at MIT, a fellow of the IEEE, and a founding director of both Creative Commons and the Free Software Foundation. an AB degree from Princeton University and obtained a PhD degree in mathematics from MIT. published a widely selling book on Logo. presented a computational approach to geometry which has been cited as "the first step in a revolutionary change in the entire teaching/learning process." developed MIT's introductory computer science subject, Structure and Interpretation of Computer Programs. This work, through the textbook of the same name, videotapes of their lectures, and the availability on personal computers of the Scheme dialect of Lisp (used in teaching the course), has had a worldwide impact on university computer-science education. codirecting the MIT Project on Mathematics and Computation. The goal of the project is to create better computational tools for scientists and engineers. a part of the Free Software Movement, including serving on the Board of Directors of the Free Software Foundation. Abelson is known to have been involved in the publishing of Andrew Huang's Hacking the Xbox and Keith Winstein's seven-line Perl DeCSS script (known as qrpff), as well as LAMP, MIT's campus-wide music distribution system. The MIT OpenCourseWare (OCW) project was spearheaded by Hal Abelson and other MIT faculty. DeCSS was one of the first free computer programs capable of decrypting content on a commercially produced DVD video disc. Before the release of DeCSS, Linux-based computing systems could not play video DVDs.
- Blaise Agüera y Arcas --- architect of Bing Maps and Bing Mobile, graduate of Princeton University where he received a B.A. in physics
- Jeremy Allison --- Samba, a re-implementation of SMB/CIFS networking protocol, the early versions of the pwdump password cracking utility. During his career, Jeremy Allison has consistently defended the free software approach.
- Harald Tveit Alvestrand --- a Norwegian computer scientist. He was the chairman of the Internet Engineering Task Force from 2001 until 2005. He is an author of several important RFCs, many in the general area of Internationalization and localization. selected for the ICANN Board. member of the Unicode Consortium. the Executive Director of the Linux Counter Organization.
- Marc Blank --- game developer and software engineer. He is best known as part of the team that created one of the first hit text adventure computer games, Zork. In high school, Blank collaborated with Alex Citron on a simulation of a major league baseball season called CWABL, standing alternatively for Computerized Winner Automatic Baseball League or Citroblamatic Whizamadingy Automatic Baseball League, which came to employ a pseudorandom number generator classmate Robert Goodman programmed on an electronic calculator. Despite its name, it operated via table look-up.
Blank first encountered Don Woods and Will Crowther's Adventure game while he was studying at MIT in the mid-1970s, where the game was played on mainframe computers.
Blank was frustrated by the computer's tiny vocabulary; when it parsed user inputs very few words were recognized. After thinking about the problem during his undergraduate years, he started work on his own adventure game using MDL, a computer language invented at MIT. Blank and a handful of friends wrote the original version of Zork on a PDP-10 while he was attending medical school at Albert Einstein College of Medicine in New York (he received his MD degree in 1979).
The free-play university version of Zork first became available on the MIT-DM PDP-10 in June 1977. It was then distributed by the Digital Equipment Corporation DECUS program and spread to many colleges in the United States and Canada.
Blank graduated from medical school in 1979 but the call of Zork was irresistible. He and several friends spent the next year developing a specialized computer language that they could use to program text adventures like Zork on the new microcomputers.
The Apple II's limited RAM required them to cut half of the original version of Zork. The new Zork for the Apple and the Radio Shack TRS-80, had a 600-word vocabulary. They founded the new company, Infocom, to publish the game and more like it.
In 1993 he teamed up with former Infocom writer Michael Berlyn to found Blank, Berlyn and Co. The company's name was later changed to Eidetic. They initially published productivity software for the Apple Newton. Eidetic's Notion: The Newton List Manager became a hit and was ultimately bundled in all Newtons.
Blank returned to text adventures in 1997 when Activision producer Eddie Dombrower asked Blank and Berlyn to create a small promotional game, Zork: The Undiscovered Underground, to promote the release of Activision's graphical game Zork: Grand Inquisitor.
As Newton sales faded, Eidetic changed gears to focus on PC and PlayStation games, producing the hit Syphon Filter in 1999. In 2000 Sony acquired Eidetic for an undisclosed sum.
Blank left Sony in 2004, where he focused on his email client for the Treo smartphone, ChatterEmail. On February 22, 2007, Blank announced he would no longer be "actively" working on ChatterEmail. Blank subsequently joined Palm, Inc. (who acquired ChatterEmail) and led the design and implementation of the Palm Pre's Email application. He worked in the Android group at Google from 2009 to 2012, and is now a Principal Engineer at Lab126 (Amazon.com).
In 2013 Blank and Dave Lebling were awarded the Academy of Interactive Arts & Sciences Pioneer Award for their work on Zork.
- Daniel Bleichenbacher --- a Swiss cryptographer, previously a researcher at Bell Labs, and currently employed at Google. He received his Ph.D. from ETH Zurich in 1996 for contributions to computational number theory, particularly concerning message verification in the ElGamal and RSA public-key cryptosystems.
In 1998, Daniel Bleichenbacher demonstrated a practical attack against systems using RSA encryption in concert with the PKCS#1 v1 encoding function, including a version of the Secure Socket Layer (SSL) protocol used by thousands of web servers at the time. This attack was the first practical reason to consider adaptive chosen-ciphertext attacks.
In 2006 at a rump session at CRYPTO, Bleichenbacher described a "pencil and paper"-simple attack against RSA signature validation as implemented in common cryptographic toolkits. Both OpenSSL and the NSS security engine in Firefox were later found to be vulnerable to the attack, which would allow an attacker to forge the SSL certificates that protect sensitive websites
- Joshua J. Bloch --- a software engineer and a technology author, formerly employed at Sun Microsystems and Google. He led the design and implementation of numerous Java platform features, including the Java Collections Framework, the java.math package, and the assert mechanism.[1] He is the author of the programming guide Effective Java (2001), which won the 2001 Jolt Award,[2] and is a co-author of two other Java books, Java Puzzlers (2005) and Java Concurrency In Practice (2006).
Bloch holds a B.S. in computer science from Columbia University and a Ph.D. in computer science from Carnegie Mellon University.[1] His 1990 thesis was titled A Practical Approach to Replication of Abstract Data Objects[3] and was nominated for the ACM Distinguished Doctoral Dissertation Award
- Adam Bosworth --- Bosworth graduated from St. Ann's School in Brooklyn Heights, which was founded by his father, Stanley Bosworth, and received his bachelor's degree in History from Harvard University in 1976.
one of the pioneers of XML technology.
- Jean-Yves Bouguet --- a member of the Computer Vision Research Group in the Department of Electrical Engineering at the California Institute of Technology. Contributed camera calibration ideas to the Open Source Computer vision Library (OpenCV).
- Tim Bray --- one of the co-authors of the original XML specification.
As an Invited Expert at the World Wide Web Consortium between 1996 and 1999, Bray co-edited the XML and XML namespace specifications.
He joined the New Oxford English Dictionary (OED) project at the University of Waterloo in 1987 as its manager. It was during this time Bray worked with SGML.
"In math I’d worked like a dog for my Cs, but in CS I worked much less for As—and learned that you got paid well for doing it."
Tim Bray served as the part-time CEO of Waterloo Maple during 1989–1990.
Between 2001 and 2004 he served as a Tim Berners-Lee appointee to the W3C Technical Architecture Group.
Until October 2007, Bray was co-chairing, with Paul Hoffman, the Atom-focused Atompub Working Group of the Internet Engineering Task Force. Atom is a web syndication format developed to address perceived deficiencies with the RSS 2.0 format.
Bray worked with the IETF JSON Working Group in 2013 and 2014, serving as editor of RFC 7159, a specification of the JSON Data Interchange Format which revised RFC 4627 and highlighted interoperability best practices, released in March 2014.
Bray has written many software applications, including Bonnie which was the inspiration for Bonnie++, a Unix file system benchmarking tool; Lark, the first XML processor; and APE, the Atom Protocol Exerciser.
- Eric Brewer --- the main inventor of a wireless networking scheme called WiLDNet which promises to bring low-cost connectivity to rural areas of the developing world. He is a tenured professor of Computer Science at UC Berkeley. known for formulating the CAP Theorem about distributed network applications in the late 1990s.
- Sergey Brin --- Together with Larry Page, he co-founded Google.  was born in Moscow in the Soviet Union, to Russian Jewish parents, Yevgenia and Mikhail Brin, both graduates of Moscow State University. His father is a mathematics professor at the University of Maryland, and his mother a researcher at NASA's Goddard Space Flight Center.
- Michael Burrows --- Michael Burrows, FRS (born 1963) is a British computer scientist and the creator of the Burrows–Wheeler transform currently working for Google.
- Thomas Bushnell --- founder and principal architect of GNU Hurd
- Vint Cerf --- Internet pioneer, who is recognized as one of "the fathers of the Internet". He was a manager for the United States' Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency (DARPA) funding various groups to develop TCP/IP technology. he was instrumental in the development of the first commercial email system (MCI Mail) connected to the Internet. Cerf was instrumental in the funding and formation of ICANN from the start. He waited in the wings for a year before he stepped forward to join the ICANN Board, eventually becoming chairman. He was elected as the president of the Association for Computing Machinery in May 2012.
- Wesley Chan --- the Google Analytics service, Google Voice and Google Hangouts, Google Talk, Google AdWords and Google AdSense, Google WiFi.
- Corinna Cortes --- computer scientist known for her contributions to machine learning. She is currently the Head of Google Research, New York. She is an Editorial Board member of the journal Machine Learning.
- Mark Davis --- a specialist in software text processing and internationalization and the co-founder and president of the Unicode Consortium. He is one of the key technical contributors to the Unicode specifications, being the primary author or co-author of Bi-directional Algorithm. Ph.D. in Philosophy from Stanford University. also worked on parts of the Mac OS, including contributions to the design of TrueType. the architect for a large part of the Java international libraries. At IBM, he was the Chief Software Globalization Architect. Davis founded and was responsible for the overall architecture of ICU (a major Unicode software internationalization library), and designed the core of the Java internationalization classes.
- Jeff Dean --- While at Google, he has designed and implemented large portions of the company's advertising, crawling, indexing and query serving systems, along with various pieces of the distributed computing infrastructure that sits underneath most of Google's products. Spanner, translation system for Google Translate, BigTable, MapReduce, Google Brain, LevelDB, TensorFlow
- Jens Eilstrup Rasmussen --- the inventor of both Google Maps and Google Wave, and designed the Google Maps pin.
- Behdad Esfahbod --- a director at GNOME Foundation from 2007 to 2010, serving as the president from 2008 to 2009. Among the projects he has led are the cairo, fontconfig, HarfBuzz, and pango libraries, which are standard parts of the GNOME desktop environment, the Google Chrome web browser, and the LibreOffice suite of programs.
- Alan Eustace --- world record for the highest-altitude free-fall jump.
- Stuart Feldman --- creator of the computer software program make. author of the first Fortran 77 compiler, and he was part of the original group at Bell Labs that created the Unix operating system. the Vice President of Computer Science at IBM Research. Vice President, Engineering, East Coast, at Google. the President of the ACM in 2006. a member of the Editorial Advisory Board of ACM Queue, a magazine he helped found with Steve Bourne. served on the editorial boards of IEEE Internet Computing and IEEE Transactions on Software Engineering.
- Evgeniy Gabrilovich --- a senior staff research scientist at Google, specializing in Information Retrieval, Machine Learning, and Computational Linguistics, and a Senior Member of the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers (IEEE),[1] and an ACM Distinguished Scientist.
- Jean-loup Gailly --- an author of gzip. He wrote the compression code of the portable archiver of the Info-ZIP and the tools compatible with the PKZIP archiver for MS-DOS. He worked over zlib in collaboration with Mark Adler.
- Howard Gobioff --- one of the architects of the Google File System
- Spencer Kimball --- creating GNU Image Manipulation Program (GIMP) while still in college, and assisting the source code development of CockroachDB
- Peter Mattis --- launching GNU Image Manipulation Program (GIMP) while still in college, and assisting the source code development of CockroachDB
